---
layout: post
comments: True
title: Following a Winding PATH
---
I have spent my morning thus far troubleshooting the pydolphot execution. I got the acs and wfc3 modules for dolphot I added the acs and wfc3 folders to the dolphot2.0 folder, edited the dolphot 2.0 makefile to uncomment the wfc3 line and acs line. I also made sure to change the directory for the makefile to match the directory in which I want dolphot. I used 'make clean' to wipe the previous make and reran the make in the new directory for dolphot (and its modules). The bin now contains dolphot modules and the acs and wfc3 modules needed to run it. Pydolphot still wouldn't run, which is now obvious as I now understand what the PATH is.

The command line will automatically recognize commands from directories on the PATH. So I had to figure out how to add the dolphot directory to the path so that pydolphot will be able to call the dolphot commands without needing to go to their directory. [This](https://hathaway.cc/2008/06/how-to-edit-your-path-environment-variables-on-mac/) was helpful for me to figure out how to do add to my path. I accidentally messed up my path at one point by removing everything from it and I couldn't even drive the command line because only built-in commands worked (even ls isn't built-in) I successfully backtracked enough to figure it out and now dolphot commands are on my path. However, pydolphot still says it can't find them. The long and winding path to getting pydolphot to run...

Ok, I have learned one thing for sure and have a suspicion about another thing. The one I have learned for sure, is that even though I modified my path the new dolphot commands aren't recognized by ipython, at least not yet. They are still recognized by the normal terminal window which means I can still run the program in my terminal window as long as I type in python before I run it.

The thing I am not positive about, but have a suspicion about is the meaning of reference_file after the command to run make_dolparam. Reference_file is indeed supposed to be a specific file in the raw directory.
