---
layout: post
comments: True
title: DOLHPOT AND FWHM Pt. IV
---

# FWHM

I am going to begin the day working on imexam as I got it to begin working yesterday. I tried this morning to begin a program in atom to call run in terminal. The !ds9 -title (whatever the title is) command which works in the normal command line (even when running ipython) does not work when running it as a part of a python script. I spent a bit of time looking into a fix for this by using some form of a subprocess command, but I don't think it's worth spending my morning on. I am going to move on for now.

I am now running this program in a jupyter notebook as it works better than the text editor. I am having trouble as even once the ds9 window opens, the kernel is still running on that line of code (as indicated by the asterisk). I'm going to work on DOLPHOT for a little bit and see what happens there.


# DOLPHOT

Although [this site](https://github.com/dweisz/pydolphot) is a python wrapper for dolphot, there are good instructions for actually running DOLPHOT manually (which the author recommends being familiar with before using the python wrapper anyway). The DOLPHOT manual assumes a working knowledge of things I don't have a working knowledge of, so this repo is a helpful step-by-step explanation.

I'm running into another error that I think is an issue of a very simple task being confusing to someone who has never done it. DOLPHOT has been compiled, the binary files are in the bin. I moved copies of all of the flc files into the dolphot directory, but now am not sure how to run any dolphot commands. Simply typing acsmask or a similar command doesn't work, and I wouldn't expect it to since they aren't really unix commands. I am just not sure what environment or whatever I need to be in to run code that was written in C. Hopfully it is an easy fix and I'm almost there with running DOLPHOT on our data! woo!

I would say at this point I am at two fairly dead ends that without further information, I am not sure how to proceed from. Google searches are kind of unhelpful for the questions about c because they all reduce it to a very simple example.

Through a little guesswork I am now trying "./"followed by the command I want to execute while in the bin part of dolphot (where all of the binary codes were saved). It is missing some of the code that the pydolphot readme discusses (namely acsmask, the first command it uses).

Question (which I hope to answer on my own but would like to pose here) is WFC3 (which our data come from) part of ACS or is ACS a different camera altogether?

I could download the other DOLPHOT ACS module from Andrew Dolphin's page, because the last one was just the DOLPHOT module and I am thinking that may be why it doesn't have acsmask.

I am going to keep going on the module I have now and see if I can get other things to work.

I got an "error reading (star).fits" which makes sense because the fits files were all in the parent directory (dolphot) not the current directory (bin).

OK, now it is taking a long time to execute this command. Maybe that is a sign things are working. Looking in finder, all of my fits files are getting renamed with their chips (i guess) the chip numbers go up to like 15 which is interesting since I didn't think there were that many chips on the WFC.
