---
layout: post
title: First Day of Research 
---
10 am
  Today I am starting to wrap my head around some of the stuff we are going to do this summer. I am beginning to go through the photutils tutorial and I think I might try to find a cup of coffee soon. I am excited for a cup of coffee and to learn how to do photometry and image analysis in python! I love the idea of using the powerful open-source stuff rather than the somewhat dated iraf environments I have used briefly in the past.

I think the exercises in the photutils tutorial require access to STScI files and so they aren't super helpful. Hopefully It will make sense with our files too. 

I downloaded stsci.tools in the command line (not while running python though) you just write pip install then whatever module you want. that was easy...

I'm playing around trying to figure out stuff with the astroconda environment. The run command doesn't work...aha...I needed to run ipython in the astroconda environment. Interesting!

Slow and steady...I got some stuff running but these files are weird. Im getting some error messages. right now I have this: ValueError: Input object does not represent a valid waivered FITS file
let's try to figure it out...

We chatted and I am downloading a program called fits liberator to make wrangling these fits files a little easier...download failed. not super important. Maybe Ill do something with it later. 

I am feeling like I am at a bit of a dead end. I am not sure what data we should download or what we should do with it. 

________
back from lunch, we kept looking for the data we need on the MAST website. 

still not super clear how to download this data. 

got some of tommy's data while mine is downloading and tried to drizzle it but i got:

ValueError: ###################################
#                                 #
# UNABLE TO READ ASSOCIATION FILE,#
ib2o01020_asn.fits
# DURING FILE PARSING.            #
#                                 #
# Please determine if the file is #
# in the current directory and    #
# that it has been properly       #
# formatted.                      #
#                                 #
# This error message is being     #
# generated from within the       #
# parseinput.py module.           #
#                                 #
###################################

hmm...at least we got a new error message. 

__________
I'm finishing up for the day. Today Tommy and I spent a while downloading data. We worked through some of the tutorials and I tried some drizzling, although have thusfar had no success. Marta is working on updating WCS on the DIAFI data that we are planning on working with soon. It's exciting to finally see the data, and I plan to spend more time on organization to make sure I can find all the files I need.
