---
layout: post
title: Day Two
comments: true
---
# Finally

Ok, I wrestled with trying to finally download the data all morning. I went through trying to get an FTP of the data to trying different search methods with mast. With the method that worked for Tommy yesterday (straight through the mast portal, selecting the data we wanted, adding it to the downloads basket) there kept being errors. Those may have been due to the routine maintenance on MAST today, but now we have both had some success (although neither of us has fully downloaded all the 606 and 814 data). The files are more than MAST's 5 GB limit, so a curl file is needed to go and do the downloads in terminal. I am running this now and will leave it for a while and do something else cause it's taking a while. Hopefully we will have all the data soon! 

Apparently these data include already drizzled files (drz files) so that will make our lives easier once we get it. I think we can go straight to using photutils to analyze the data. 

I haven't touched the DIAFI data since yesterday morning when my updatewcs script didn't like them. I hope to work with those data soon though. 

While I have been waiting for the curl to uncurl itself (something my hair will never do) I have been messing with my blog to make it better. I enabled commenting through disqus and this post is the first one where i turned it on. This should allow for easier collaboration with my colleagues when we aren't in the same room and it was good to learn how to add it to a blog. 

We are still uncurling 6 hours later. I may end up using the data Tommy downloaded, but thought it would be good to learn how to do the process myself. At least I did it on the lab computer so I could keep using this one while it works. 

We have been working through photutils documentation trying to figure out how it works so that we can get to using it tomorrow. 

# In Conclusion For Today

It was frustrating to spend all morning trying to get the data although I think familiarizing myself with the archives we are working in is not wasted time. Tommy is making some progress with the photutils code and now that we have the data, hopefully we can start doing photometry on it tomorrow. I imagine that process is going to be a lot buggier and clunkier than our process so far, but Im looking forward to getting into the meat of the project. I got a job at the paint shop that I will begin tomorrow so I will only be in here in the mornings. I will have to be a good communicator with Marta and Tommy, but it shouldn't be too hard as I'll still be in Olin. I hope to begin this photometry on the new data tomorrow and resolve through at least a few sets of error messages if not get to some sort of output figure tomorrow morning before I go to lunch/painting. 
