---
layout: post
comments: True
title: Dolphot's Last Stand P II.
---

Yesterday the photometry part of dolphot finally ran for me. I hadn't expected it to take as long as it did, so I hadn't let it run before. Now I know that it takes a very long time to run. Although photometry ran and created several non-empty files, I still have no idea how to decipher what they say. I am trying a fresh run of pydolphot and dolphot to remove any issues that may have been caused from the fact I was running dolphot several times yesterday.

A few hours in, Dolphot is still going as slowly as yesterday, so I think it is not an consequence of running multiple programs at once but just how dolphot works.

Ok I now have a similar output from dolphot, it took a very long time again. I think there are some parameters with dolphot I need to adjust. The resulting text file with all of the sources found is almost 300mb, meaning it has about 300 million characters. I think this corresponds to WAY more sources than there actually should be/are in the relatively small FOV that this picture is taken over. The output is very complex, and I dont have time to tackle it today.

I spent a little time working with SEP, and started a little practice code over in Rory's Codes on the git repo.

I have lots of family coming in this weekend, so I don't plan on working, although if I have some free time, I may find myself back here.

I think it will be important to have some photometry results by the end of next week. That may well mean switching to SEP. I am interested to see if Thom is able to have luck with dolphot.
