---
layout: post
comments: True
title: Getting Real with Source Discretion and Catalog Matching
---
Yesterday I began to develop some catalog matching code. It worked this morning, but then I was faced with the more tedious and difficult task of turning all of this data into a catalog to match all of the stars that I screened for. I spent the morning thinking about this, and met with Dr. G in the afternoon to run some questions by her. I also was confused about how to best accomplish source discretion on all of the files. Should I keep awk parameters the same for every file or change it up for each one depending on how it looked?

I left my meeting with Dr. G with a lot more clarity and a plan for going forward. I planned to go through all of the images again and get better source discretion, allowing myself to change the parameters for each image depending on how they looked. I played with the parameters and made some interesting discoveries:

1) I realized I could get rid of almost all of the diffraction spikes by throttling down the roundness and crowding values. without impacting many of the real sources

2) I realized that keeping only sharpnesses between -.3 and .3 was filtering out some obvious sources. I got rid of sharpness as a parameter entirely, and have better source detection now because of it.

The following are the results of my most recent round of source filtering. I feel that this is the best my source discretion has been. I missed many sources in each image, but I missed many sources regardless of how I changed my parameters, and due to the low crowding and roundness tolerances in this round of detection almost all of the detected stars in these images are real and not diffraction spikes or multiple sources in a larger source.
ib2o01: 731 stars: awk '$24 + 0 == 0 && $6 + 0 >= 75 && $8 + 0 <= .1 && $10 + 0 <= .2'
ib2o02: 802 stars: awk '$24 + 0 == 0 && $6 + 0 >= 75 && $8 + 0 <= .1 && $10 + 0 <= .2'
ib2o03: 1003 stars: awk '$24 + 0 == 0 && $6 + 0 >= 75 && $8 + 0 <= .1 && $10 + 0 <= .2'
ib2o04: 763 stars: awk '$24 + 0 == 0 && $6 + 0 >= 75 && $8 + 0 <= .1 && $10 + 0 <= .5'
ib2o05: 1265 stars: awk '$24 + 0 == 0 && $6 + 0 >= 75 && $8 + 0 <= .1 && $10 + 0 <= .2'
ib2o06(only one flc image): 279 stars: awk '$24 + 0 == 0 && $6 + 0 >= 75 && $8 + 0 <= .1 && $10 + 0 <= .2'
ib2o08: 1012 stars: awk '$24 + 0 == 0 && $6 + 0 >= 75 && $8 + 0 <= .1 && $10 + 0 <= .2'
ib2oa6: 1264 stars: awk '$24 + 0 == 0 && $6 + 0 >= 75 && $8 + 0 <= .1 && $10 + 0 <= .5'
ib2oa7: 1226 stars: awk '$24 + 0 == 0 && $6 + 0 >= 75 && $8 + 0 <= .1 && $10 + 0 <= .2'
ibop01: 1063 stars: awk '$24 + 0 == 0 && $6 + 0 >= 75 && $8 + 0 <= .1 && $10 + 0 <= .5'
ibop02: 1183 stars: awk '$24 + 0 == 0 && $6 + 0 >= 75 && $8 + 0 <= .1 && $10 + 0 <= .2'
ibop03: 979 stars: awk '$24 + 0 == 0 && $6 + 0 >= 75 && $8 + 0 <= .1 && $10 + 0 <= .5'
ibop04: 1028 stars: awk '$24 + 0 == 0 && $6 + 0 >= 75 && $8 + 0 <= .1 && $10 + 0 <= .2'

I am now trying to figure out how to make a catalog of stars. I know how to see which stars are close to each other but am having trouble figuring out how to combine the photometry from these multiple sources into a catalog of stars to then match 814 data with.

I have to run home now and put this away for the night, I have more ideas about how to make this work using awk, and querying the values from the text files to average them. I will have to figure out a way to streamline it all into a program though to get it to work. So that's for bright and early tomorrow. 
