---
layout: post
comments: True
title: Day Four
---
# Slow and Steady

I finished working out which hubble frames correspond to each Xray source. It took some time to look at the original MAST archive images of NGC6819 mousing over the areas that contain the x ray sources and looking for all the frames that contain that spot. There were several sources that fell very close to or on the edge of a frame and for these I used the frames that actually contained the xray source nearer to the center of the frame. The HLA data has a greater FOV so it captured more of the sources than the HST data. I imagine that the HST data is actually higher quality since it was taken after some camera upgrades. I hope that what we have is of sufficient quality to do good photometry. I added the Observation IDs after each Xray source on the xraysourcecoords file on the NGC6819 github (editing in atom and pushing changes! To the web!)

When my .sh file with all of the HST and HLA 606 and 814 data finished uncurling the other day it was about 37 GB, and several files had errors in downloading. This was fine, and the data is on the lab computer although for the time being I am using the data Tommy downloaded with the same method. However, Tommy's data is about 31 GB, so that is why I used the MAST archive to do this source/frame correlation so that we are basing our frames off of the comprehensive list of frames. If our data is missing some of these frames, we can go back online and download the missing frames.

# Next Steps

Tommy has been doing a lot of practice with photometry and hopefully my list can help him to begin working with the actual data we are interested in. I think I'm going to try to do some work this evening when I get off work to make up for getting a later start this morning.
